Add guide for Optuna (#1)
himkt/allennlp-guide: chapters/part3/hyperparameter-optimization-with-optuna.md

---
title: 'Hyperparameter Optimization with Optuna'
description: "This chapter gives a basic tutorial for optimizing the hyperparameters of your model."
type: chapter
---

<textblock>

In this chapter, we'll give a quick tutorial of hyperparameter optimization for your AllenNLP model.

</textblock>

<exercise id="1" title="Hyperparameters matter!">

The choice of hyperparameters often has a strong impact to the performance of a model.
Even if you use the same model, performance can drastically change depending on the hyperparameters (e.g. learning rate, dimensionality of word embeddings) you use.
Following figure shows the performance change with different hyperparameters.

> <img src="/part3/hyperparameter-optimization-with-optuna/hyperparameter_matters.jpg" alt="Hyperparameters matter!" />

Reviewer: It may be a bit difficult for me to distinguish the hyperparameters with the metric. This is partly because the crown is located at the left while the accuracy values are shown in the right-most column, and partly because the font and background color of the accuracy column is the same as the other columns.

How about moving the accuracy column to the left-most column?

Author: ~Thank you for the feedback, I agree with you. (moved)~

Author: I update it in f2497c9.

Reviewer: Thanks! SGTM.

The choice of hyperparameters is often based on heuristics of experts, or random search, and may complicate the code.
<a href="https://optuna.org">Optuna</a> is a library for hyperparameter optimization, which allow users to easily optimize hyperparameters automatically.
Optuna provides sophisticated algorithms for searching parameters, such as [Tree-structured Parzen Estimator](https://papers.nips.cc/paper/4443-algorithms-for-hyper-parameter-optimization) and
[CMA Evolution Strategy](https://arxiv.org/abs/1604.00772), as well as algorithms for pruning unpromising trials, such as [Hyperband](http://jmlr.org/papers/v18/16-558.html).

</exercise>

<exercise id="2" title="Building your model">

> This tutorial works on sentiment analysis, one kind of text classification.

Reviewer: I'm not pretty sure, but I saw `a kind of` more frequently than `one kind of`. Do you intend to use it?

```suggestion
This tutorial works on sentiment analysis, a kind of text classification.
```

> We use the IMDb review dataset, which contains 20,000 positive/negative reviews for training and 5,000 reviews for validating the performance of model.

Reviewer: Do we show the reference of the IMDb dataset?
https://ai.stanford.edu/~amaas/data/sentiment/

Author: Added. ff87e1a

Reviewer: Thanks!

local ngram_filter_sizes = std.range(2, max_filter_size);

{
  numpy_seed: seed,
  pytorch_seed: seed,
  random_seed: seed,
  dataset_reader: {
    type: 'text_classification_json',
    tokenizer: {
      type: 'whitespace',
    },
    token_indexers: {
      tokens: {
        type: 'single_id',
      },
    },
  },
  datasets_for_vocab_creation: ['train'],
  train_data_path: train_data_path,
  validation_data_path: validation_data_path,
  model: {
    type: 'basic_classifier',
    text_field_embedder: {
      token_embedders: {
        tokens: {
          embedding_dim: embedding_dim,
        },
      },
    },
    seq2vec_encoder: {
      type: 'cnn',
      embedding_dim: embedding_dim,
      ngram_filter_sizes: ngram_filter_sizes,
      num_filters: num_filters,
      output_dim: output_dim,
    },
    dropout: dropout,
  },
  data_loader: {
    batch_size: batch_size,
  },
  trainer: {
    cuda_device: cuda_device,
    num_epochs: num_epochs,
    optimizer: {
      lr: lr,
      type: 'sgd',
    },
    validation_metric: '+accuracy',
  },
}
```

These hyperparameters are selected based on the standard recommendations.
Of course, we can train this model using AllenNLP CLI.

> I ran `allennlp train imdb_baseline.jsonnet` five times with random seeds.

Reviewer: How about showing that you used different random seeds?

Author: f954dcc Thank you. :pray:

As the result, the average of validation accuracy was 0.828 (±0.004).

Let's dive into hyperparameter optimization.
Optuna offers a integration for AllenNLP, named <a href="https://optuna.readthedocs.io/en/stable/reference/integration.html#optuna.integration.AllenNLPExecutor">`AllenNLPExecutor`</a>.
We can use `AllenNLPExecutor` by following steps: `Masking parameters` and `Defining search space`.

> ## I: Masking Hyperparameters for Optuna

Reviewer: I'm not sure if `mask` is the appropriate verb for this.
`std.extVar` reads the external value, and I don't think it masks the value.

> If an external variable with the given name was defined, return its string value. Otherwise, raise an error.
https://jsonnet.org/ref/stdlib.html

Author: 4145a6a  After offline discussion with @toshihikoyanase, I updated to `Telling Optuna's hyperparameters`.

        type: 'single_id',
      },
    },
  },
  datasets_for_vocab_creation: ['train'],
  train_data_path: train_data_path,
  validation_data_path: validation_data_path,
  model: {
    type: 'basic_classifier',
    text_field_embedder: {
      token_embedders: {
        tokens: {
          embedding_dim: embedding_dim,
        },
      },
    },
    seq2vec_encoder: {
      type: 'cnn',
      embedding_dim: embedding_dim,
      ngram_filter_sizes: ngram_filter_sizes,
      num_filters: num_filters,
      output_dim: output_dim,
    },
    dropout: dropout,
  },
  data_loader: {
    batch_size: batch_size,
  },
  trainer: {
    cuda_device: cuda_device,
    num_epochs: num_epochs,
    optimizer: {
      lr: lr,
      type: 'sgd',
    },
    validation_metric: '+accuracy',
  },
}
```

</details>

## II: Defining Search Space for Hyperparameters in Pythonic way

Now that you have created the config, the next step is defining the hyperparameter search spaces.
In Optuna, a search space is defined by creating an `objective function`.
Each hyperparameter search space is declared with `suggest_int` or `suggest_float`.
For categorical hyperparameters, you can use `suggest_categorical`.

> Please see <a href="https://optuna.readthedocs.io/en/stable/reference/generated/optuna.trial.Trial.html#optuna.trial.Trial">our documentation</a> for more information.

Reviewer: I think our documentation means AllenNLP docs since this tutorial is a part of AllenNLP guide. How about rephrasing it, for example, as follows:
```suggestion
Please see <a href="https://optuna.readthedocs.io/en/stable/reference/generated/optuna.trial.Trial.html#optuna.trial.Trial">Optuna documentation</a> for more information.
```

> In this tutorial, I create an objective function like following (Note that the names of the hyperparameters should be the same as those defined in the configuration earlier):

Reviewer: The names of the hyperparameters are not clearly explained here.
How about adding a short explanation about the argument of suggest API.

The following is just an example:
`These suggest functions require two kinds of arguments at least. The first one is the name of hyperparameter, and the second one is the range of the values. Note that the name of the ...`

Author: I adopted your suggestion in ae5cd52.

Reviewer: Thank you!

```python
import optuna

def objective(trial: optuna.Trial) -> float:
    trial.suggest_int("embedding_dim", 32, 256)
    trial.suggest_int("max_filter_size", 2, 6)
    trial.suggest_int("num_filters", 32, 256)
    trial.suggest_int("output_dim", 32, 256)
    trial.suggest_float("dropout", 0.0, 0.8)
    trial.suggest_float("lr", 5e-3, 5e-1, log=True)

    executor = optuna.integration.allennlp.AllenNLPExecutor(
        trial=trial,  # trial object
        config_file="./config/imdb_optuna.jsonnet",  # path to jsonnet
        serialization_dir=f"./result/optuna/{trial.number}",
        metrics="best_validation_accuracy"
    )
    return executor.run()
```

> After defining search spaces using `trial.suggest_int` and `trial.suggest_float`, the `trial` object should be passed to `AllenNLPExecutor`.

Reviewer: Maybe we can explain the role of `trial` here something like as follows:

The `trial` object holds all suggested values after defining search spaces using `trial.suggest_int` and `trial.suggest_float`,  and it should be pass to `AllenNLPExecutor`.

Author: I edited the PR to use your suggestion. a52b7b3

---
title: 'Hyperparameter Optimization with Optuna'

> description: "This chapter gives a basic tutorial for optimizing hyperparameters of your model."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: "This chapter gives a basic tutorial for optimizing the hyperparameters of your model."
```

type: chapter
---

<textblock>

In this chapter, we'll give a quick tutorial of hyperparameter optimization for your AllenNLP model.

</textblock>

> <exercise id="1" title="Hyperparameter matters!">

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<exercise id="1" title="Hyperparameters matter!">
```

> A choice of hyperparameters sometimes has a strong impact to the performance of a model.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The choice of hyperparameters often has a strong impact to the performance of a model.
```

> Even if you use the same model, performance could drastically change by the hyperparameters (e.g. learning rate, dimensionality of word embeddings) you use.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Even if you use the same model, performance can drastically change depending on the hyperparameters (e.g. learning rate, dimensionality of word embeddings) you use.
```

> Following figure shows the performance differences with changing hyperparameters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Following figure shows the performance change with different hyperparameters.
```

> <img src="/part3/hyperparameter-optimization-with-optuna/hyperparameter_matters.jpg" alt="Hyperparameter matters!" />

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<img src="/part3/hyperparameter-optimization-with-optuna/hyperparameter_matters.jpg" alt="Hyperparameters matter!" />
```

> The choice of hyperparameters is often based on heuristics of experts, or random search, and may complicate the code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The choice of hyperparameters is often based on recommended values or random search and may complicate the code.
```

Author: Hmm, I'm wondering `recommended values` would not express my intension.
I want to say that `hyperparameters are often selected based on human experiences, without any evidence`.

Reviewer: This is not a strong opinion, but IMO, `recommended values` would be aligned with the following explanation in section 2:

> These hyperparameters are selected based on the standard recommendations.

Author: I tried to update here with explaining a typical story of hyperparameter optimization 8e6997a.
What do you think about it?

> <a href="https://optuna.org">Optuna</a> is the library for hyperparameter optimization, which allow users to optimize hyperparameters automatically+easily.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<a href="https://optuna.org">Optuna</a> is a library for hyperparameter optimization, which allow users to easily optimize hyperparameters automatically.
```

> Various sophisticated algorithms for searching parameters such as [Tree-structured Parzen Estimator](https://papers.nips.cc/paper/4443-algorithms-for-hyper-parameter-optimization) and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Optuna provides sophisticated algorithms for searching parameters, such as [Tree-structured Parzen Estimator](https://papers.nips.cc/paper/4443-algorithms-for-hyper-parameter-optimization) and
```

> [CMA Evolution Strategy](https://arxiv.org/abs/1604.00772), and pruning unpromissing trainings such as [Hyperband](http://jmlr.org/papers/v18/16-558.html) are implemented.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[CMA Evolution Strategy](https://arxiv.org/abs/1604.00772), as well as algorithms for pruning unpromising trials, such as [Hyperband](http://jmlr.org/papers/v18/16-558.html).
```

</exercise>

<exercise id="2" title="Building your model">

This tutorial works on sentiment analysis, one kind of text classification.

> We use IMDb review dataset, which contains 20,000 positive/negative reviews for training and 5,000 reviews for validating the performance of model.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We use the IMDb review dataset, which contains 20,000 positive/negative reviews for training and 5,000 reviews for validating the performance of model.
```

> If you haven't read <a href="https://guide.allennlp.org/your-first-model#1">the previous tutorial for text classification</a>, it would help you.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you haven't read <a href="https://guide.allennlp.org/your-first-model#1">the tutorial for text classification</a>, that may be helpful.
```

> I show a sample configuration of a CNN-based classifier below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Below is a sample configuration of a CNN-based classifier.
```

> Note that this model has 6 hyperparameters: `embedding_dim`, `dropout`, `lr`, `max_filter_size`, `num_filters`, and `output_dim`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that this model has six hyperparameters: `embedding_dim`, `dropout`, `lr`, `max_filter_size`, `num_filters`, and `output_dim`.
```

local dropout = 0.2;
local lr = 0.1;
local max_filter_size = 4;
local num_filters = 128;
local output_dim = 128;
local ngram_filter_sizes = std.range(2, max_filter_size);

{
  numpy_seed: seed,
  pytorch_seed: seed,
  random_seed: seed,
  dataset_reader: {
    type: 'text_classification_json',
    tokenizer: {
      type: 'whitespace',
    },
    token_indexers: {
      tokens: {
        type: 'single_id',
      },
    },
  },
  datasets_for_vocab_creation: ['train'],
  train_data_path: train_data_path,
  validation_data_path: validation_data_path,
  model: {
    type: 'basic_classifier',
    text_field_embedder: {
      token_embedders: {
        tokens: {
          embedding_dim: embedding_dim,
        },
      },
    },
    seq2vec_encoder: {
      type: 'cnn',
      embedding_dim: embedding_dim,
      ngram_filter_sizes: ngram_filter_sizes,
      num_filters: num_filters,
      output_dim: output_dim,
    },
    dropout: dropout,
  },
  data_loader: {
    batch_size: batch_size,
  },
  trainer: {
    cuda_device: cuda_device,
    num_epochs: num_epochs,
    optimizer: {
      lr: lr,
      type: 'sgd',
    },
    validation_metric: '+accuracy',
  },
}
```

> I selected these hyperparameters simply based on the huristics.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These hyperparameters are selected based on the standard recommendations.
```

Of course, we can train this model using AllenNLP CLI.

> I run `allennlp train imdb_baseline.jsonnet` five times with changing random seeds.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
I ran `allennlp train imdb_baseline.jsonnet` five times with random seeds.
```

As the result, the average of validation accuracy was 0.828 (±0.004).

Let's dive into hyperparameter optimization.
Optuna offers a integration for AllenNLP, named <a href="https://optuna.readthedocs.io/en/stable/reference/integration.html#optuna.integration.AllenNLPExecutor">`AllenNLPExecutor`</a>.
We can use `AllenNLPExecutor` by following steps: `Masking parameters` and `Defining search space`.

## I: Masking Hyperparameters for Optuna

First, we replace values of hyperparameters with `std.extVar` for tell Optuna what parameters to be optimized.

> Remember that call `std.parseInt` or `std.parseFloat` for numerical parameters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Remember that `std.parseInt` or `std.parseFloat` are used for numerical parameters.
```

### Before

```json
local embedding_dim = 128;
local dropout = 0.2;
local lr = 0.1;
local max_filter_size = 4;
local num_filters = 128;
local output_dim = 128;
local ngram_filter_sizes = std.range(2, max_filter_size);
```

### After

```json
local embedding_dim = std.parseInt(std.extVar('embedding_dim'));
local dropout = std.parseJson(std.extVar('dropout'));
local lr = std.parseJson(std.extVar('lr'));
local max_filter_size = std.parseInt(std.extVar('max_filter_size'));
local num_filters = std.parseInt(std.extVar('num_filters'));
local output_dim = std.parseInt(std.extVar('output_dim'));
local ngram_filter_sizes = std.range(2, max_filter_size);
```

> That's all. You can view a final configuration by clicking `details` below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
That's it. You can view a final configuration by clicking `details` below.
```

local ngram_filter_sizes = std.range(2, max_filter_size);

{
  numpy_seed: seed,
  pytorch_seed: seed,
  random_seed: seed,
  dataset_reader: {
    type: 'text_classification_json',
    tokenizer: {
      type: 'whitespace',
    },
    token_indexers: {
      tokens: {
        type: 'single_id',
      },
    },
  },
  datasets_for_vocab_creation: ['train'],
  train_data_path: train_data_path,
  validation_data_path: validation_data_path,
  model: {
    type: 'basic_classifier',
    text_field_embedder: {
      token_embedders: {
        tokens: {
          embedding_dim: embedding_dim,
        },
      },
    },
    seq2vec_encoder: {
      type: 'cnn',
      embedding_dim: embedding_dim,
      ngram_filter_sizes: ngram_filter_sizes,
      num_filters: num_filters,
      output_dim: output_dim,
    },
    dropout: dropout,
  },
  data_loader: {
    batch_size: batch_size,
  },
  trainer: {
    cuda_device: cuda_device,
    num_epochs: num_epochs,
    optimizer: {
      lr: lr,
      type: 'sgd',
    },
    validation_metric: '+accuracy',
  },
}
```

</details>

## II: Defining Search Space for Hyperparameters in Pythonic way

> Now that you have created the config, next step is defining search spaces of hyperparameters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now that you have created the config, the next step is defining the hyperparameter search spaces.
```

> In Optuna, it defines a search space by creating `objective function`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Optuna, a search space is defined by creating an `objective function`.
```

> Each search space for hyperparameter is declared by `suggest_int` and `suggest_float`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each hyperparameter search space is declared with `suggest_int` or `suggest_float`.
```

> If you want to optimize categorical hyperparameters, you can use `suggest_categorical`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For categorical hyperparameters, you can use `suggest_categorical`.
```

Please see <a href="https://optuna.readthedocs.io/en/stable/reference/generated/optuna.trial.Trial.html#optuna.trial.Trial">our documentation</a> for more information.

> In this tutorial, I create a objective function like following (Note that the names of hyperparameter should be the same as those defined in the configuration earlier):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, I create an objective function like following (Note that the names of the hyperparameters should be the same as those defined in the configuration earlier):
```

```python
import optuna

def objective(trial: optuna.Trial) -> float:
    trial.suggest_int("embedding_dim", 32, 256)
    trial.suggest_int("max_filter_size", 2, 6)
    trial.suggest_int("num_filters", 32, 256)
    trial.suggest_int("output_dim", 32, 256)
    trial.suggest_float("dropout", 0.0, 0.8)
    trial.suggest_float("lr", 5e-3, 5e-1, log=True)

    executor = optuna.integration.allennlp.AllenNLPExecutor(
        trial=trial,  # trial object
        config_file="./config/imdb_optuna.jsonnet",  # path to jsonnet
        serialization_dir=f"./result/optuna/{trial.number}",
        metrics="best_validation_accuracy"
    )
    return executor.run()
```

> After defining search spaces using `trial.suggest_int` and `trial.suggest_float`, `trial` should be passed to `AllenNLPExecutor`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After defining search spaces using `trial.suggest_int` and `trial.suggest_float`, the `trial` object should be passed to `AllenNLPExecutor`.
```

> `AllenNLPExecutor` takes three required arguments; `trial` (Optuna's object), `config_file` (path to a model configuration),

Reviewer 2: That's four?

```suggestion
`AllenNLPExecutor` takes four required arguments; `trial` (Optuna's object), `config_file` (path to a model configuration),
```

`serialization_dir` (directory for saving model snapshot, log, etc.), and `metrics` you want to optimize.

> In above example, we create an instance of `AllenNLPExecutor` as `executor`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the above example, we create an instance of `AllenNLPExecutor` as `executor`.
```

> Once creating `executor`, it starts a training by `executor.run()`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the `executor` instance is created, training is started with `executor.run()`.
```

> In each trial step in optimization, objective is called and does the following steps:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In each trial step in optimization, the objective function is called and does the following steps:
```

1. Train a model (`executor.run()`)

> 2. Get and return a target metric on validation data (`executor.run()` returns a value of specified metric)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Return a target metric on validation data (`executor.run()` returns the specified metric)
```

Now, we finished defining objective function. :tada:

> Let's write Optuna stufs for launching optimization!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's write Optuna stuff for launching optimization!
```

> In Optuna, we create a study object and pass the objective function to method `optimize()` as follows.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Optuna, we create a study object and pass the objective function to the `optimize()` method as follows.
```

You can specify something; a way to save a result of optimization, a sampler for searching hyperparameters (TPESampler is based on Bayesian Optimization),

> direction for optimizing (maximize or minimize), and number of jobs for distributed training, and timeout.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
direction for optimizing (maximize or minimize), number of jobs for distributed training, or timeout.
```

```python
if __name__ == '__main__':
    study = optuna.create_study(
        storage="sqlite:///result/trial.db",  # save results in DB
        sampler=optuna.samplers.TPESampler(seed=24),
        study_name="optuna_allennlp",
        direction="maximize",
    )

    timeout = 60 * 60 * 10  # timeout (sec): 60*60*10 sec => 10 hours
    study.optimize(
        objective,
        n_jobs=1,  # number of processes in parallel execution
        n_trials=30,  # number of trials to train a model
        timeout=timeout,  # threshold for executing time (sec)
    )
```

</exercise>

<exercise id="3" title="Results of Hyperparameter Optimization">

If `study.optimize` successfully runs, `trial.db` would be created in the directory `result`.

> [Tips] You can change a names of database file and directory by changing the value of `storage` in `optuna.create_study`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Tip] You can change a names of database file and directory by changing the value of `storage` in `optuna.create_study`.
```

You can see and analyze a result by passing `study` object to various methods implemented in Optuna.

> If you want to separate an analysis from optimization, you can save `study` in storages (e.g. RDB) and load it in another script.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to separate an analysis from optimization, you can save the `study` (e.g. RDB) and load it in another script.
```

```python
study = optuna.load_study(
  storage="sqlite:///result/trial.db",
  study_name="optuna_allennlp"
)
```

> First of all, let's check results of each trials with a `pandas` dataframe.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's check the results of each trial with a `pandas` dataframe.
```

```python
study.trials_dataframe()
```

<img src="/part3/hyperparameter-optimization-with-optuna/trials_dataframe.jpg" alt="Dataframe">

Next, visualize a history of optimization.
To plot a history of optimization, we can use `optuna.visualization.plot_optimization_history`.
I also put a validation accuracy of baseline model as a reference.

> It shows that Optuna successfully find hyperparameters for achieving better performance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It shows that Optuna successfully found hyperparameters to achieve better performance.
```

> Note that this figure shows one result of optimizations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that this figure shows one result of optimization.
```

> As the case of baseline, I performed optimization five times with changing random seeds and got the averaged validation accuracy 0.909 (±0.004), which outperforms the baseline with large margine.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the baseline, I performed optimization five times with random seeds and got an average validation accuracy of 0.909 (±0.004), which outperforms the baseline by a large margin.
```

```python
optuna.visualization.plot_optimization_history(study)
```

<br>
<img src="/part3/hyperparameter-optimization-with-optuna/optimization_history.jpg" alt="Plot Optimization History" />

From the recent release of Optuna, we can evaluate parameter importances based on finished trials.

> There are two evaluators available: [fANOVA](http://proceedings.mlr.press/v32/hutter14.html) and [MDI](https://papers.nips.cc/paper/4928-understanding-variable-importances-in-forests-of-randomized-trees).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are two evaluators available: the default [fANOVA](http://proceedings.mlr.press/v32/hutter14.html) and [MDI](https://papers.nips.cc/paper/4928-understanding-variable-importances-in-forests-of-randomized-trees).
```

To show importances of hyperparameters, it uses `optuna.visualization.plot_param_importances`:

```python
optuna.visualization.plot_param_importances(study)
```

> In this plot, we can see that `lr` is the most important in this experiment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this plot, we can see that `lr` is the most important hyperparameter in this experiment.
```

<br>
<img src="/part3/hyperparameter-optimization-with-optuna/hyperparameter_importance.jpg" alt="Plot Hyperparameter Importance" />

Additionally, you can export a configuration with optimized hyperparameters.

```python
dump_best_config("./imdb_optuna.jsonnet", "./best_config.json", study)
```

It will create a configuration named `best_config.json`.

> If you want to retrain a model with the best hyperparameters, it would be helpful.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is helpful to retrain a model with the best hyperparameters.
```

</exercise>

<exercise id="4" title="[Advanced] Writing your own script">
Additionally, you can use Optuna by writing your own script for creating a model and defining a search space.

You may notice that `AllenNLPPruningCallback` is specified in `epoch_callbacks`, it is our recent work on Optuna x AllenNLP integration.
Using `AllenNLPPruningCallback`, you can use efficient pruning algorithms such as <a href="http://jmlr.org/papers/v18/16-558.html">Hyperband</a> in training a model.
<!-- [TODO: Installing Optuna is needed for executing this script.] -->
<codeblock source="part3/optuna/source" setup="part3/optuna/setup"></codeblock>

</exercise>

<exercise id="5" title="Summary">

> In this guide, we show a tutorial for hyperparameter optimization using Optuna.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
That concludes this guide on how to use Optuna for hyperparameter optimization. Hopefully you've learned how to define AllenNLP hyperparameter search space using Optuna, run the trials for optimization, and then use the results with just a few lines of code.
```

> Optuna integration for AllenNLP allows you to optimize hyperparameters of your model with a few lines of codes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

> If you want to know about Optuna in details, please visit the <a href="https://optuna.readthedocs.io/en/stable/">documentation</a>.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more details about Optuna, please see the <a href="https://optuna.org/">Optuna website</a> or <a href="https://optuna.readthedocs.io/en/stable/">Optuna documentation</a>.
```

        trial=trial,  # trial object
        config_file="./config/imdb_optuna.jsonnet",  # path to jsonnet
        serialization_dir=f"./result/optuna/{trial.number}",
        metrics="best_validation_accuracy"
    )
    return executor.run()
```

After defining search spaces using `trial.suggest_int` and `trial.suggest_float`, the `trial` object should be passed to `AllenNLPExecutor`.
The `trial` object holds all suggested values after defining search spaces using `trial.suggest_int` and `trial.suggest_float`,  and it should be pass to `AllenNLPExecutor`.
`AllenNLPExecutor` takes four required arguments; `trial` (Optuna's object), `config_file` (path to a model configuration),
`serialization_dir` (directory for saving model snapshot, log, etc.), and `metrics` you want to optimize.
In the above example, we create an instance of `AllenNLPExecutor` as `executor`.
Once the `executor` instance is created, training is started with `executor.run()`.
In each trial step in optimization, the objective function is called and does the following steps:

1. Train a model (`executor.run()`)
2. Return a target metric on validation data (`executor.run()` returns the specified metric)

> Now, we finished defining objective function. :tada:

Reviewer: In my environment, `:tada:` was not rendered properly. I guess we need [`gatsby-remark-emojis`](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/packages/gatsby-remark-emojis/).

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3255979/89896693-db03b300-dc18-11ea-8537-ec497baa1db7.png)

Author: Thank you for catching, I didn't notice it.
I removed emoji in a711c66.

Let's write Optuna stuff for launching optimization!
In Optuna, we create a study object and pass the objective function to the `optimize()` method as follows.

> You can specify something; a way to save a result of optimization, a sampler for searching hyperparameters (TPESampler is based on Bayesian Optimization),

Reviewer: The class name should be marked with backticks like others.
```suggestion
You can specify something; a way to save a result of optimization, a sampler for searching hyperparameters (`TPESampler` is based on Bayesian Optimization),
```

<!-- We put the python code to use AllenNLP+Optuna at the bottom of this exercise. -->

## Pruning unpromising trials

Hyperparameter optimization often takes a long time to find good parameters.
If you can find and stop unpromising trials with bad hyperparameters, you can reduce the time of optimization and get good hyperparameters faster.
Stopping unpromising trials is so-called pruning.
The following illustration shows an example of pruning.
Although the final curves at the left side of the picture are not available before finishing hyperparameter optimization,
a pruner evaluates at each epoch how promising each trial will be and stops if it predicts to be unpromising.

<img src="/part3/hyperparameter-optimization-with-optuna/illustration_of_pruning.jpg" alt="Illustration of Pruning" />

You can use `AllenNLPPruningCallback` that is the new feature of Optuna, which allows users to prune unpromising trials with algorithms implemented in Optuna.
`AllenNLPPruningCallback` is the interface to provide the way to use these pruning algorithms in `GradientDescentTrainer`, which is the standard way to train a model in AllenNLP.

> To enable a pruning, you must create the AllenNLP callback first. `AllenNLPPruningCallback` needs two arguments: `trial` and a target metric.

Reviewer: "`trial` and a target metric' is a bit inconsistent. How about removing the backticks of the trial?
```suggestion
To enable a pruning, you must create the AllenNLP callback first. `AllenNLPPruningCallback` needs two arguments: a trial and a target metric.
```
